what is api key?
---------------
An API key is a unique code that is used to access an API securely.

Key Features of an API Key
Authentication: Ensures the request is coming from a trusted source.
Access Control: Restricts access to specific endpoints, users, or features.

How It Works
------------
A developer registers an application with the API provider and obtains an API key.
api key is sent to backend along with api request.
The API server verifies the key before processing the request.

eg: 

Suppose you’re using a weather API:
GET https://api.weather.com/v3/weather/forecast?location=London&apiKey=YOUR_API_KEY
Here, YOUR_API_KEY is the API key, and it allows the server to verify that you have access to the weather data.

Best Practices:

Keep It Secret
Change the key periodically to minimize security risks.
Use Environment Variables: Store API keys securely in server-side environment variables, not hardcoded in the source code.

Where Are API Keys Commonly Used?
Third-party APIs: Accessing services like Google Maps, OpenWeather, or payment gateways, getting stock data.

Custom APIs: Protecting your own API from unauthorized access.

To protect your custom API using an API key, you can follow these steps:
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Generate API Keys
    Create a unique API key for each user or client.
2. Store API Keys Securely
    Save the generated keys in a secure database along with information about the user or client.
    Hash the keys (like passwords) to prevent exposure. Use libraries like bcrypt or SHA-256.
3. Require API Key for Access
    Add a middleware or logic in your API to check for an API key in the request headers, query parameters, or body.
4. Set Permissions and Quotas
    Assign permissions to each API key (e.g., read-only, admin).
    Limit the number of requests per key to prevent abuse (rate limiting).
5. Monitor and Change Keys

6. Use HTTPS
    Ensure all API communications occur over HTTPS to prevent interception of API keys.
    This approach adds a layer of protection and ensures only authorized users can access your API.